Some advice for junior people
trying to break into
the autonomous industry,
getting a degree in
engineering definitely helped
me especially from
the University of Waterloo
where I got to do
a lot of internships,
a lot of interactive projects,
and I also during that time helped
mentor FIRST Robotics team.
So, all of that helped
to boost up my resume.
So, if you wanted to get into
the autonomous space into
firmware engineering,
some of the schooling
that you might want
is an engineering degree.
You can also do it
through a CS degree,
but getting some real experience
with hardware definitely helps.
In my final of university,
I took embedded classes to get
more familiar with more of
the low level software or
the low level aspects of
software that I would need
in a more day-to-day life.
Being very familiar with
the hardware definitely helps in
my day-to-day job because
I'm actuating pieces.
We've definitely have seen people in
this industry who have more of
a mechanical background
and that also helps,
but just knowing how to code
also definitely helps with
that and knowing all of
the pieces around you,
robotics in general,
I think that mechatronics
engineering was
definitely a help for that
for me because it was so
well-rounded and I got to do
everything and there
were so many projects
that definitely helped me
to figure out how
everything went together.
So, I think in the
industry right now,
because it's growing so
fast and so rapidly,
pretty much every role is
needed including firmware or
even perception or any part
of the autonomous stack
just needs people.
I get contacted specifically a lot
about firmware jobs because
of my background in firmware,
but I think that in general,
there are just so many jobs out there
right now that everyone's
just trying to
get the best people to work on
their autonomous challenge.
It's a very aggressively
hiring industry,
so I constantly get recruited by
other companies looking
to just get people and
I'm obviously trying to find
as many people as possible
for ZOOX so that we can
continue working and growing.
It seems like we're doing pretty
good considering our numbers,
but as always there's always more
people needed and everybody's
trying to solve this problem
and everyone's trying to
get all the best people
to work on it.
Now that I've had the chance
to work in industry,
I think the ideal candidate
would be people who
are interested and
excited about the field.
In terms of technical skills,
are fluent in C++ and Python.
We need research engineers who
are able to solve problems from
first principles and we also
need people with
machine learning experience.
One of the biggest pieces
of advice I can give to
people at the undergraduate
or graduate level
is to join student teams.
Student teams gives
you the opportunity
to work collaboratively with
your peers and develop your
communication leadership skills.
Although, the projects you work
on might not be cutting edge,
at the same time they
really help you gain
experience working in
a semi-professional setting.
Communication skills are
important for people out in
the workplace as well because
especially in autonomous driving,
we have all of these unique problems
that we need to solve
and being able to
communicate your ideas
clearly is vitally important.
Being there when things fail
is a very valuable
learning experience.
A lot of the skills carry over.
For example, troubleshooting,
working with others,
being able to solve problems,
I found that experience very
helpful once I started
working in the industry.
My advice for junior engineers
looking to break into
the industry is really to
be hands-on and practical,
to try taking on projects yourself.
That could take the form of
either a laptop on wheels where
you program your own stack into
end or using the simulator to
predict what the environment would be
like once we do hit the ground.
I think solving
these practical problems
through practical means
with teach you
a lot and I personally
have drawn a lot
from previous projects in
my day-to-day job nowadays.
What advice would I
gave if you wanted to
come and work in an NAV company?
Well, first of all, be open
to all areas of engineering.
Don't become just a computer
vision specialist if you can.
Try and understand that this is
fundamentally a robotics question,
because we have software
using multiple sensors,
trying to ask some very difficult
questions in the presence of
a very devious world that's
got strange lighting,
strange weather, people
behaving in strange ways.
You have to know a bit
about control or
interfacing to people
who know about control,
who know about planning,
who know about vision,
who know about lasers, who
know about communications,
who know about systems engineering.
You're going to want
to be interacting
with those individuals
the whole time.
So, I would say, understand this as
a big engineering science problem.
Obviously code.
Like code all the time.
Practice, practice, practice
and code well. Be proud.
If you have a circuit
as an undergraduate
and you building a circuit
and if it looks shocking,
it probably is shocking.
That's a good joke with electricity,
but the same is true for software.
So, be a proud software
engineer about
the quality of the code that you're
writing and you will do well.
Love getting into
the mess of it, right?
Please don't work
with cameras indoors,
go out into a rainstorm,
go into the snow,
go into the blinding sun and
go with cameras out there,
and don't worry if it doesn't work,
because that's the best
lesson you could get.
So, boldly go out
into places that are
tricky for these systems to
work in and learn from that.
Be a proud roboticist and be
a systems engineer as well,
because it's a full-stack
problem, right?
It's not just I want to
process a camera really well,
I want two spot cars,
it's all of it and it all
has to interact in the end.